# Disease Spread Simulation Project 3

Part 1: The situation

You have be awarded a government contract to simulate the spread of disease through a
populated area, such that mitigation plans can be put into place. The simulation will show the flow
of people in and out of population and town centers to show how a disease may spread from
community to community. 

The simulation will show the spread over the course of many weeks, with each moment of
the simulation representing approximately 1 hour.

The simulation should be configurable to adjust how people interact and move within the
simulation, and how the disease spreads and infects people within the simulation. 

How long the simulation executes should also be configurable.
Once the simulation is complete, it should generate a report with the following information:

 How long did the simulation run
 How many people were infected over the course of the simulation
 How many people were died over the course of the simulation
 What percentage of people were infected at the end of the simulation
 What percentage of people were dead at the end of the simulation
 What percentage of people were infected on average
 What was the average number of people an infected person spread the disease to
 What was the maximum number of people an infected person spread the disease to
 The following may need to be placed into a separate heading or report:
o What was the average population size at each location
o What was the average percent of people sick with the disease at each
location
o What was the average percent of people in quarantine at each location

Part 2: Creating Classes

The project contains at least three classes you must implement: Person.cs, Location.cs, and
Configuration.cs.

The Person class - The Person class represents a single person that exist within the simulation. 
Each person should have at least the following attributes:

 string Id - A person’s unique identifier to assist with debugging and analysis.
 int TravelStartTime – The time of day on a 24-hour clock when this person may start
travelling to other locations.
o Must be less than “TravelEndTime”
 int TravelEndTime – The time of day on a 24-hour clock when this person may stop
travelling to other locations.
o Must be greater than “TravelStartTime”
 bool IsInfected – A Boolean flag to indicate whether a person is currently infected.
 int InfectionCount – An indicator of how many times a person has been infected.
 int InfectionSpreadCount – An indicator of how many times a person has spread the
disease to another person.
 bool IsDead – A Boolean flag to indicate that the person is no longer alive, and therefore
can no longer travel between locations, and can no longer catch or spread the disease.
 bool IsQuarantined – A Boolean flag to indicate whether a person is quarantined,
meaning that they will not travel to other locations and will not spread the disease, but will
resume travel once recovered from the disease.
 double QuarantineChance – A percentage of the likelihood this person is to quarantine
themselves once infected.
o Must be clamped between 0 and 1.
o This should be generated by the configuration file at runtime.
o The configuration file will provide a mean and a standard deviation.
o This value must be randomly generated based on a normal random distribution as
defined by the configuration file.
The Location class
The Location class represents a population or community center. It has the following properties:
 string id – A location’s unique identifier to assist with debugging and analysis.
 ICollection<Person> people – A collection of people currently at the location.
 ICollection<Location> neighbors – A collection of nodes connected to the current
node.

Each hour of the simulation, people at the same location should have an opportunity to spread the
disease to other people at the same location. After the spreading of the disease occurs, then
people should have the opportunity to move to a neighboring location.
People that are dead do not spread the disease and do not travel ever again.
People that are quarantined do not spread the disease and do not travel, but may resume both
once the quarantine period is complete.

The Configuration class - The Configuration class reads in data from a file that determines the parameters of the
simulation. From the configuration file, the user should be able to adjust the following:

 The mean population size of a location at the start of the simulation.
 The standard deviation of the population size of a location at the start of the simulation.
 The percent chance of the disease spreading to another person at the same location.
 The percent chance of the disease flagging a person as dead.
 The number of hours that the disease last.
 The number of hours that a quarantine last.
 The mean percent chance of a person entering quarantine.
 The standard deviation of the percent chance of a person entering quarantine.
 How long the simulation should last.
 The percent chance that a person will travel each hour of the simulation.

(Note: From the configurable settings above, you may extrapolate additional requirements.)

Part 3: Running the Simulation

If the disease can no longer spread (meaning no person is infected, or all persons are dead), then
the simulation should end prematurely.

When running the simulation, log the following into a CSV file at the end of each hour in the
simulation:

 The person’s information that has been infected the most
 The person’s information that has spread the disease the most
 The number of people currently not dead
 The number of people currently dead
 The number of people currently infected with the disease
 The number of people currently quarantined

Part 4: Modifying the Simulation

While running your simulation, you may find it necessary to consider other factors. Adjust your
simulation to account for at least one of the following:

 People do not uniformly travel between locations.
 Population/Community centers should have a higher starting population at the beginning of
the simulation.
 Some people may have a natural immunity to the disease.
 Some people may develop an immunity to the disease.
 The disease’s properties may mutate over time to become more or less infectious, or more
or less lethal over time.

Part 5: Offer a Recommendation

Run your simulation multiple times with many different configurations. Look for general trends
and draw conclusions. Write a 1-5 paragraph summary of your findings. Indicate what you
consider to be the most important factors/parameters of the simulation.
